today I'm going to be revealing why I
would use three Reverb buses on every
single mix let's do this okay so picture
this you're standing in this
intersection right at the front the best
seat in the house for a concert your
favorite band is playing and it's a song
that you know very well in love in fact
you know every single detail of this
song every chord change whenever
instrument comes in when it drops out
it's all right there in your head now as
you're proverbiably standing there
listening let's assume that this is an
indoor venue and ask yourself this are
all the instruments hitting your ears at
the same times and what are the
dimensions of the room and is it
perfectly isometrical now if you're
picturing your favorite venue right now
then you know that the answers to the
previous questions that I just asked is
a resounding No in fact at any given
time depending on where you're standing
your ears are being affected by three
different types of reverbs of course
there are some exceptions however it's
that concept that allows your brain to
perceive where you are in that space
it's from this mode of thinking that I
approach a mix and it's why I use three
Reverb buses so please hear me out so in
order to properly recreate that space
that we were just daydreaming about a
little bit earlier one would need to
replicate what the sound is doing in
that room right so by creating three
Reverb bus channels one for small Decay
times one for medium and one for large
or close near and far sounds my aim is
to recreate that space using varying
amounts of Reverb on each track and by
using sends I have full control over how
much Reverb is affecting the audio and
where it sets in the room with the use
of panning so to further illustrate this
point here's a sound example of this
concept actually being utilized in a mix
all right so here's the three Reverb
buses in place we're going to listen to
The Mix while these are enabled and then
we'll take them out so you can kind of
see what they're contributing to the mix
as well as we're going to solo each one
of these to show you exactly what
they're attributing to the mix as well
loud noise in three two and one
[Music]
you squandered
all the things that won't last
you've based on your happiness of things
you never had in the past
okay so as you can see there's a lot of
depth a lot of width that's there in
this portion of the mix and so what
exactly are these adding to the mix well
if we solo the short room this is what
it's adding and only what it's adding
[Music]
last
okay now let's take a listen to the
medium and see what it's adding
[Music]
okay and lastly let's take a listen to
the long
[Music]
you squandered your wealth
of things
you
[Music]
never had in the past
okay so as you can see each one of them
is contributing sort of a different
spatiality to the mix and when we remove
them from the mix completely this is
what you have
[Music]
calm down
you've squandered your wealth
on the things that won't last
you've based on your happiness of things
so to keep with the concept that I spoke
about earlier in the video if you are
standing in a concert hall and you are
watching the lead vocalist that sound
would reach your ears at different times
and so this is what this is literally
recreating now if we were to look at the
drum track you can kind of see how the
send structure goes as well as over here
so some of them are going to the short
medium and long some of them are only
going to the medium and long and that's
the beauty of using these three River
buses you can then adjust the varying
amounts of signal that's going to those
buses so that you can essentially create
a space for them and if you're already
used to the concepts of Reverb then you
know that things that are farther away
are going to be pushed into the Long
Haul whereas things that are closer to
us but still need space will be used in
the short room so you can literally
begin to structure your mix based off of
front to back and even side to give it a
full 360 degrees of depth alright
everyone well I hope this was
eye-opening or at least ear opening to
say the least now if you like this
tutorial and you would like to get your
hands on a whole slew of exclusive
tutorials as well as commercial free raw
track reactions with an extra 10 minutes
that's not found on YouTube and not to
mention some other raw track reactions
that got blocked off of YouTube head on
over to the website
homesudiosimplified.com forward slash
store and you have many different
options there to join the VIP membership
in fact for less than what you're paying
for your Netflix bill you can get a ton
of tutorials as well as a ton of
freebies that you can download
immediately just for joining alright
guys until next time remember we can
dream alone we can even create alone but
together we can achieve so much more
[Music]